A method is a block of code which can be used more than once. Methods are used to group similar tasks. For example, if we want to add two numbers we can create a method called `add` and write the code which will add the two numbers inside the `add` methods code block.

## Difference between function and method

There's a slight difference between a `method` and a `function`.

A function is a piece of code which is called by it's name. If a function called `add` is created, we can call it by `add()`.

A method is a member of a Class. It can operate on the data which was encapsulated by the object.

## Syntax

Every method returns data. So like variables, we have to mention the type of data a method will be returning before its name. Returning data is not required for a method.

Methods also can take in arguments. To allow arguments in a method, we need to define the parameters of that method. We also have to mention the type.

Arguments are passed by value. This means, if we pass a variable as an argument, the method body will copy the value of the variable and use that. It will not modify the original variable.

```java
// takes in two arguments, returns a double
static double addTwo(double a, double b) {
	return a + b;
}

// takes in not argument and does not return
static void justCheck() {
	System.out.println("Just checking!");
}

```


## Passing objects as parameters of Methods

When we pass an object as a parameter to a method, it is passed by reference and not values. This means, if we make any change to the object from inside the method then the changes will appear in the main object itself.

## Method Overloading

In any class, we can have multiple versions of the same method or constructor. This is called method overloading. Java basically looks at the params of the method to figure out which method to call. This is called a signature. Java decides based on the following factors:

1. Number of parameters passed to the method called
2. Types of the parameters.

If we have two method with the same name and both take one param but the type of the param is different then we can consider those to be two unique signature. But if the type of the params were same on both method then those will not be considered as unique signature and java will spit out an error.

