There are two parts to an array creation. These are:
1. Declaration
2. Initialization

The declaration occurs at the compile time and initialization occurs at runtime. Let's look at the following code:

```java
int[] nums; // declaration: happens at compile time
nums = {1, 2, 4, 5}; // initialization: happens at run time
```

We can rewrite the code like this:

```java
int[] nums = {1, 2, 4, 5}; // declarion and initialization
```

So what is happening? When a compiler  compiles the above code, it will take anything on the left hand side of the `=` operator and create a placeholder in stack and point it to some part of memory address. Then when the program is run, the right hand side will run and the array will be initialized and stored in memory. This is known as dynamic memory allocation as the memory gets allocated at runtime.

But if the memory gets allocated at compile time, then it will be considered as a static memory allocation.

Arrays are stored contiguously in memory. Which simply means that, each item of the array has a memory address which are side by side. For example, if the memory address of the first index is `100/101` then the address of the second index will be `102/103`. These addresses are side by side.

>**NOTE: **
>We need to keep in mind that, these addresses are simplified and the address for each index of an array is dependent on the type of data stored. Here we are considering `int` data type and we are also considering that each integer takes two bytes to be stored (The size of the data type depends on the programming language and the compiler as well).  Hence we are saying the first index is at `101/102`  which is two bytes.

- [] insert image here