A class is simply a template which we can use to define new objects, object data, and methods. For example, we can say that a class is a category and an object is an item of that category. If we try to understand this with an example of burgers, we will see that there are different types of burgers, but all of them have the same features. They have buns, different types of sauces or meat. So we can say that `Burger` is a class and different types of burgers are objects (items) created by that class template.

We use this `object oriented` pattern to encapsulate the data and operations and share the usage semantics with the user so that they can use it.

## Defining a Class

We declare a class using the `class` keyword with the name of the class. A reminder: classes should not be `private`.

```java
public class Burger {
	// class members
}
```

## Class members

Each class can contain members. They are:
1. Fields - contains data
2. Methods - executable code
3. Constructor  - executable code which runs when an object is created.

```java
public class Burger {
	String sauce;

	public Burger() {
		sauce = "barbecue sauce"; // sets the default value of sauce
	}

	void makeBurger() {
		System.out.println("A burger with " + sauce + " was made!");
	}
}
```

## Using a class

To use a class we need to create a variable and assign the class name with  the `new` keyword. This creates a new instance of the class.

```java
Burger doubleDecker = new Burger();
```

## Classes are reference types

This means that when we instantiate a class and assign it to a variable, that variable does not keep a value of the created instance but keeps a reference to that instance. So if two variables are pointing to the same reference, one change will make the change appear in both variables.

```java
Burger doubleDecker = new Burger();
doubleDecker.sauce = "chilli sauce";
doubleDecker.makeBurger(); // "A burger with chilli sauce was made!"

Burger chickenSupreme = new Burger();
chickenSupreme.sauce = "hot pepper";
chickenSupreme.makeBurger() // "A burger with hot pepper was made!"

chickenSupreme = doubleDecker;
chickenSupreme.sauce = "hot pepper";

// The sause of doubleDecker was also changed because chickenSupreme
// had the same reference as doubleDecker object.
chickenSupreme.makeBurger() // "A burger with hot pepper was made!"
doubleDecker.makeBurger() // "A burger with hot pepper was made!"

```