Strings are a sequence of characters. When defining a `character` in Java, we have to use single quotes. For `string`s, we have to use double quotes.

We can also concatenate two strings together using the `+` sign.

```java
String firstName = "Jhon";
String lastName = "Doe";
String fullName = firstName + " " + lastName;
System.out.println(fullName); // Jhon Doe
```

## String Immutability

Strings are immutable in Java. So, the variable just points to an area of memory that contains the string literal. So if we change the value of that variable, java will not rewrite the area on memory, it will reallocate a new area of memory which will contain the new string. The old string stays in memory but is not referenced.

## String Equality

### Using `==`

Because strings are immutable in javascript, the variables are just a reference to the string value. So, if we initiate two different variables with the same string, and append to them, both will contain the same value but will reference a different area in memory. So if we try to compare those two using the `==` operator, the result will be false. Because, the `==` operator not only checks if the values match, but also checks if the references match as well.

```java
String name = "Jhon";  
name += " Doe";  
String name2 = "Jhon";  
name2 += " Doe";  
System.out.println(name == name2); // false
```

But, if we initiate the two variable with the same value and try to compare, we will get `true`. Because, as we did not change anything, both variable are referenced to the same area in memory.

```java
String name = "Jhon";
String name2 = "Jhon";
System.out.println(name == name2); // true
```

### Using `equals`

There's also another way to compare two strings using the `equals` method. This method only checks if both of the strings have the same value. It does not check for the reference. This does a character-by-character comparison. This can be expensive.

```java
String name = "Jhon";  
name += " Doe";  
String name2 = "Jhon";  
name2 += " Doe";  
System.out.println(name.equals(name2)); // false
```

### String Interning

We can also intern a string so that only one area of memory is used for the same string. When interning a string, the java compiler simply looks for the same interned value and puts a reference to that value.

```java
String name = "Jhon";  
name += " Doe";  
String name2 = "Jhon";  
name2 += " Doe";
String nameInt = name.intern(); // creates a intern reference
String name2Int = name2.intern(); // points to the intern reference created in previous step
System.out.println(nameInt == name2Int); // true
```

## Methods

As Strings are classes, there are some methods available in the String class. Don't try to memorize these. Please use google to search and read about the methods.

## StringBuilder

String builder lets us to build a string piece by piece. This is mutable. String builder creates a buffer and there it stores the data. Then we use `toString` method to get a final string.

```java
StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();  
sb.append("Jhon ");
sb.append("Doe");
System.out.println(sb.toString()); // Jhon Doe
```